README.md, before:

Spock Scope Extension
=====================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mkutz/spock-scope-extension.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mkutz/spock-scope-extension) [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/mkutz/spock-scope-extension.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/mkutz/spock-scope-extension)
[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/de.assertagile.spockframework.extensions/spock-scope-extension/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/de.assertagile.spockframework.extensions/spock-scope-extension)

An extension to mark tests as belonging to a (set of) scopes (e.g. a global feature or a major aspect of the application) for the Spock Framework (see http://spockframework.org/).

When executing a Specification marked `@Scope(["a", "b"])` and the configured current scope is `["c", "d"]`, the test will be set "ignored" while all tests that are marked with a set of scopes containing at least one `"c"` or `"d"`.

Usage
-----

Add this as a test dependency to your project.

For instance in your pom.xml:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>de.assertagile.spockframework.extensions</groupId>
  <artifactId>spock-scope-extension</artifactId>
  <version>${spock-scope-extension.version}</version>
  <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

Add `SpockScopeConfig.groovy` to your projects resources and add at least a list of possible `scopes` and optinally a list of `currentScopes`:
```groovy
scopes = ["feature a", "feature b", "feature c"]
currentScopes = ["feature a", "feature c"]
```

Note that if `currentScopes` is empty or not configured at all the extension will not ignore any test.

Not yet implemented/Ideas
-------------------------

- `currentScopes`should be a `-D`parameter that can be usens in `mvn test -Dspock.currentScopes=a,b`
- scopes may be better defined as an Enum, so it is refactorable and autocompletable in IDE's.

Commit message:

Added system parameter "spock.scopes" as replacment for SpockScopesConfig.groovy's currentScopes; removed need for configuration of possible scopes.

README.md, after:

Spock Scope Extension
=====================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mkutz/spock-scope-extension.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mkutz/spock-scope-extension) [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/mkutz/spock-scope-extension.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/mkutz/spock-scope-extension)
[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/de.assertagile.spockframework.extensions/spock-scope-extension/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/de.assertagile.spockframework.extensions/spock-scope-extension)

An extension to mark tests as belonging to a (set of) scopes (e.g. a global feature or a major aspect of the application) for the Spock Framework (see http://spockframework.org/).

When executing a Specification marked `@Scope(["a", "b"])` and the configured current scope is `["c", "d"]`, the test will be set "ignored" while all tests that are marked with a set of scopes containing at least one `"c"` or `"d"`.

Usage
-----

Add this as a test dependency to your project.

For instance in your pom.xml:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>de.assertagile.spockframework.extensions</groupId>
  <artifactId>spock-scope-extension</artifactId>
  <version>${spock-scope-extension.version}</version>
  <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

Now you can mark your `Specification`s with the `@Scope(…)` annotation with one or more strings representing scopes.

When you execute your tests you can pass `-Dspock.scopes=…` to your test execution, all tests that are not annotated with at least one of the given scopes, it will be ignored.

To ease usage in IDE's you can as well create a `SpockScopeConfig.groovy` to your projects resources and add a list of `currentScopes` instead of the `-Dspock.scopes=…` parameter:
```groovy
currentScopes = ["feature a", "feature c"]
```

Note that if `currentScopes` is empty or not configured at all the extension will not ignore any test.

Also note that the `-Dspock.scopes=…` parameter will always replace the configuration in `SpockScopeConfig.groovy` if given.

Not yet implemented/Ideas
-------------------------

- scopes may be better defined as an Enum, so it is refactorable and autocompletable in IDE's.
